QUOTES AND IMAGES: COURT OF ST. CLOUD


MEMOIRS OF THE COURT OF ST. CLOUD


A Gentleman at Paris




A stranger to remorse and repentance,
as well as to honour

Accused of fanaticism, because she
refused to cohabit with him

All his creditors, denounced and
executed

All priests are to be proscribed as
criminals

As everywhere else, supported injustice
by violence

As confident and obstinate as ignorant

Bestowing on the Almighty the passions
of mortals

Bonaparte and his wife go now every
morning to hear Mass

Bonaparte dreads more the liberty of
the Press than all other

Bourrienne

Bow to their charlatanism as if it was
sublimity

Cannot be expressed, and if expressed,
would not be believed

Chevalier of the Guillotine: Toureaux

Complacency which may be felt, but
ought never to be published

Country where power forces the law to
lie dormant

Distinguished for their piety or
rewarded for their flattery

Easy to give places to men to whom
Nature has refused parts

Encounter with dignity and self-command
unbecoming provocations

Error to admit any neutrality at all

Expeditious justice, as it is called
here

Extravagances of a head filled with
paradoxes

Feeling, however, the want of
consolation in their misfortunes

Forced military men to kneel before
priests

French Revolution was fostered by
robbery and murder

Future effects dreaded from its past
enormities

General who is too fond of his life
ought never to enter a camp

Generals of Cabinets are often
indifferent captains in the field

God is only the invention of fear

Gold, changes black to white, guilt to
innocence

Hail their sophistry and imposture as
inspiration

He was too honest to judge soundly and
to act rightly

Her present Serene Idiot, as she styles
the Prince Borghese

Hero of great ambition and small
capacity: La Fayette

How many reputations are gained by an
impudent assurance

How much people talk about what they do
not comprehend

If Bonaparte is fond of flattery__pays
for it like a real Emperor

Indifference about futurity

Indifference of the French people to
all religion

Invention of new tortures and improved
racks

Irresolution and weakness in a
commander operate the same

Its pretensions rose in proportion to
the condescensions

Jealous of his wife as a lover of his
mistress

Justice is invoked in vain when the
criminal is powerful

Labour as much as possible in the dark

Love of life increase in proportion as
its real value diminishes

Marble lives longer than man

May change his habitations six times in
the month--yet be home

Men and women, old men and children are
no more

Military diplomacy

Misfortunes and proscription would not
only inspire courage

More vain than ambitious

My maid always sleeps with me when my
husband is absent

My means were the boundaries of my
wants

Napoleon invasion of States of the
American Commonwealth

Nature has destined him to obey, and
not to govern

Not suspected of any vices, but all his
virtues are negative

Not only portable guillotines, but
portable Jacobin clubs

Nothing was decided, though nothing was
refused

Now that she is old (as is generally
the case), turned devotee

One of the negative accomplices of the
criminal

Opinion almost constitutes half the
strength of armies

Prelate on whom Bonaparte intends to
confer the Roman tiara

Prepared to become your victim, but not
your accomplice

Presumptuous charlatan

Pretensions or passions of upstart
vanity

Pride of an insupportable and
outrageous ambition

Procure him after a useless life, a
glorious death

Promises of impostors or fools to
delude the ignorant

Prudence without weakness, and with
firmness without obstinacy

Saints supplied her with a finger, a
toe, or some other parts

Salaries as the men, under the name of
washerwomen

Satisfying himself with keeping three
mistresses only

Should our system of cringing continue
progressively

Sold cats' meat and tripe in the
streets of Rome

Step is but short from superstition to
infidelity

Sufferings of individuals, he said, are
nothing

Suspicion and tyranny are inseparable
companions

Suspicion is evidence

They will create some quarrel to
destroy you

They ought to be just before they are
generous

"This is the age of upstarts," said
Talleyrand

Thought at least extraordinary, even by
our friends

Thought himself eloquent when only
insolent or impertinent

Two hundred and twenty thousand
prostitute licenses

Under the notion of being frank, are
rude

United States will be exposed to
Napoleon's outrages

Usurped the easy direction of ignorance

Vices or virtues of all civilized
nations are relatively the same

Want is the parent of industry

We are tired of everything, even of our
existence

Were my generals as great fools as some
of my Ministers

Which crime in power has interest to
render impenetrable

Who complains is shot as a conspirator

With us, unfortunately, suspicion is
the same as conviction

Would cease to rule the day he became
just