LITTLE WHITE BARBARA

  By Eleanor S. March

  Illustrated
  in Colours

  _London:_
  GRANT RICHARDS
  1902




  THE DUMPY BOOKS
  FOR CHILDREN


  18. Little White Barbara




  [Illustration {Publisher's Device:
  Sir Joseph Causton & Sons Ltd. / London}]


           *       *       *       *

This is Little White Barbara. She was
called Little White Barbara because she
had such a white face.


  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]


She lived with her two aunts, Aunt Dosy
and Aunt Posy.


This is Aunt Dosy.


This is Aunt Posy.


  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]


They were very kind to her. All day long
they used to talk about what she ought
to do to get fat and rosy.


Every morning Aunt Dosy gave Little
White Barbara cod liver oil to make her
fat.


  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]


And Aunt Posy rubbed her cheeks with a
rough towel to make them red.


If it was raining they made her sit
indoors all day by the fire.


  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]


And if it was hot they fanned her all
day long to keep her cool.


But still she only got paler and paler,

  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]

And thinner and thinner.


Until at last she almost faded away, and
you could only see her by looking
through a telescope.


  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]


And then Aunt Dosy and Aunt Posy began
to cry and say, "Oh, dear, what shall we
do!"

They cried so hard that their caps fell
off, and then they said: "We will send
for Dr. Funnyman."


When Dr. Funnyman came he looked at
Little White Barbara through an
eye-glass and a magnifying glass and an
opera-glass and a telescope, and then he
said to Aunt Dosy and Aunt Posy: "You
must go to London and buy her some
Laughing Medicine. I will send her
something to do her good till you come
back."


  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]


So Aunt Dosy and Aunt Posy went to
London to buy the Laughing Medicine. And
the Doctor sent Barbara--what do you
think?--not a bottle of medicine, but

His naughty little boy Tommy to play
with her.


Tommy looked very funny. He had a frog
in one pocket and a guinea-pig in the
other, and directly Barbara saw him

  [Illustration]

She began to laugh.


And she laughed and laughed, and all the
time

[_opposite_]

  [Illustration: HER FACE
                 GOT FATTER
                 AND FATTER
                 AND FATTER
                 AND FATTER!]


And then Tommy showed her how to climb
trees, but

  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]

She fell down, and then she began to
laugh so much that

This time she got so fat, all the
buttons came off the back of her frock.


  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]


Then they ran races round the garden
till Barbara's cheeks got quite red, and

Tommy showed her how to play leap-frog,
and she was so hungry at tea-time that

  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]

She ate twenty-two pieces of
bread-and-butter and seventeen pieces of
bread-and-jam, and drank ten cups of
milk, and

When Aunt Dosy and Aunt Posy came back
from London,--where they could not find
any Laughing Medicine in any of the
shops,--

  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]

They found Little White Barbara quite
rosy and fat, and they _were_ so happy.

And she was never called Little White
Barbara any more.


           *       *       *       *

_The Dumpy Books for Children_

CLOTH, ROYAL 32mo, 1/6 EACH

     I. +The Flamp, the Ameliorator, and the Schoolboy's Apprentice.+
        By E. V. LUCAS.
    II. +Mrs. Turner's Cautionary Stories.+
   III. +The Bad Family.+ By Mrs. FENWICK.
    IV. +The Story of Little Black Sambo.+ Illustrated in Colours.
        By HELEN BANNERMAN.
     V. +The Bountiful Lady.+ By THOMAS COBB.
    VI. +A Cat Book.+ Portraits by H. OFFICER SMITH.
         Text by E. V. LUCAS.
   VII. +A Flower Book.+ Illustrated in Colours by NELLIE BENSON.
         Text by EDEN COYBEE.
  VIII. +The Pink Knight.+ Illustrated in Colours by J. R. MONSELL.
    IX. +The Little Clown.+ By THOMAS COBB.
     X. +A Horse Book.+ Illustrated in Colours. By MARY TOURTEL.
    XI. +Little People: An Alphabet.+ Illustrated in Colours
         by HENRY MAYER. Verses by T. W. H. CROSLAND.
   XII. +A Dog Book.+ Illustrated in Colours by CARTON MOORE PARK.
         Text by ETHEL BICKNELL.
  XIII. +The Adventures Of Samuel and Selina.+ Illustrated in Colours
         by JEAN C. ARCHER.
   XIV. +The Little Girl Lost.+ By ELEANOR RAPER.
    XV. +Dollies.+ Illustrated in Colours by RUTH COBB.
         Verses by RICHARD HUNTER.
   XVI. +The Bad Mrs. Ginger.+ Illustrated in Colours
         by HONOR C. APPLETON.
  XVII. +Peter Piper's Practical Principles.+ Illustrated in Colours.
 XVIII. +Little White Barbara.+ Illustrated in Colours
         by ELEANOR S. MARCH.
   XIX. +The Japanese Dumpy Book.+ Illustrated in Colours
         by YOSHIO MARKINO.

_A Cloth Case to contain Twelve Volumes can be had price 2s. net;
or the First Twelve Volumes in Case, price Â£1 net,_

  +London: GRANT RICHARDS,+
  48, Leicester Square.