[The HTML version of this text includes all illustrations.]




  LITTLE YELLOW WANG-LO

  M. C. BELL




  THE DUMPY BOOKS
  FOR CHILDREN

  26. Little Yellow Wang-lo




The Dumpy Books for Children

CLOTH, ROYAL 32mo, 1/6 EACH

   1. The Flamp.
   2. Mrs. Turner's Cautionary Stories.
   3. The Bad Family.
   4. The Story of Little Black Sambo.
   5. The Bountiful Lady.
   6. A Cat Book.
   7. A Flower Book.
   8. The Pink Knight.
   9. The Little Clown.
  10. A Horse Book.
  11. Little People: An Alphabet.
  12. A Dog Book.
  13. The Adventures Of Samuel and Selina.
  14. The Little Girl Lost.
  15. Dollies.
  16. The Bad Mrs. Ginger.
  17. Peter Piper's Practical Principles.
  18. Little White Barbara.
  19. The Japanese Dumpy Book.
  20. Towlocks and His Wooden Horse.
  21. The Three Little Foxes.
  22. The Old Man's Bag.
  23. The Three Goblins.
  24. Dumpy Proverbs.
  25. More Dollies.
  26. Little Yellow Wang-lo.
  27. Plain Jane.
  28. The Sooty Man.
  29. Fishy-Winkle.

_A Cloth Case to contain Twelve Volumes can be had, price 2s. net;
or the First Twelve Volumes in Case, price Â£1 net._

  London: GRANT RICHARDS,
  48, Leicester Square.




  [Illustration (Publisher's Device)
  SIR JOSEPH CAUSTON & SONS LIMITED / LONDON]




    [Illustration]




  Little Yellow Wang-lo

  By

  M. C. Bell

  ILLUSTRATED
  IN COLOURS

  LONDON:
  GRANT RICHARDS
  1903


Once upon a time there was a little boy
called Little Yellow Wang-lo. He lived
with his father in a boat which was
moored in a river near a town.

His name was Fo-Pa (little Yellow
Wang-lo always called him Pa). He was a
duck merchant and had hundreds of
ducks--white ducks, black ducks, brown
ducks, big ducks, little baby ducks, and
middle-sized ducks--ducks that said
quack, drakes that said quork, and
ducklings that said queek.

    [Illustration]

Little Yellow Wang-lo had to get up very
early every morning to call the ducks
close round the houseboat, and then he
used to feed them; when they had eaten
their breakfasts they all swam away down
the river to look for little fishes,
frogs and other things, and only came
back at night when it was time to have
supper and to go to bed.

    [Illustration]


    [Illustration]

One hot day Fo-Pa, who was a very fat
little man, called little Yellow Wang-lo
and told him to put on his Sunday
clothes, take the little boat and row to
land and sell the ducks in the market;
then he was to buy a pig and bring it
back to be roasted for dinner.

Little Yellow Wang-lo's eyes shone with
excitement at the idea of going on land,
and his mouth watered at the prospect of
roast pork for dinner. So he hurried
into his best coat, hat and shoes, and,
jumping into the boat, rowed quickly to
land.

He soon sold all his fat ducks in one
corner of the market.

    [Illustration]


    [Illustration]

So then he went to another corner where
the pigs were sold, and after looking at
several pigs--black pigs, white pigs,
red pigs, and spotted pigs--he chose a
little black pig that had white feet; he
tied a string to one of its legs and
started off for home.

But the little pig had a will of his
own, and would not go the way little
Yellow Wang-lo wanted. So little Yellow
Wang-lo got a stick and beat the pig,
and the pig began to pull and pull at
the string, and the more little Wang-lo
beat him the more he squealed and the
faster he ran right through the town,
away from the river out into the
country.

    [Illustration]


    [Illustration]

The poor little boy was not used to
running, and he soon got very tired and
hot; but on piggie ran, and at last
little Yellow Wang-lo tripped over a
stone, the string broke, and down he
fell.

Getting up quickly, he saw the little
pig knocking at a little gate, and he
heard it say:

"Let me in, mother; let me in."

And a voice said: "Who's there?"

And the little pig answered: "It's
little Wee-wee come home again."

But the mother said: "How am I to know
it is little Wee-wee? I will open the
gate a little crack, and you must show
me if you have white feet."

    [Illustration]


    [Illustration]

So the mother pig opened the gate a very
little way, and when she saw Wee-wee's
white feet she let him in; and little
Yellow Wang-lo, who was close behind,
slipped in also, for he did not dare to
go home without the pig for his father's
dinner.

When he got inside he found a very big
fat old mother pig and seven little
black, white, red and black and white
piglets.

They were playing at Catch-who-can, so
little Wee-wee and little Yellow Wang-lo
joined in the game until they were
splashed all over from head to foot, and
they had torn little Wang-lo's Sunday
coat all to rags and trodden his hat and
shoes into the mud.

    [Illustration]


    [Illustration]

When it was bed-time all the little pigs
went into a little house which stood in
the yard and went to sleep, but little
Yellow Wang-lo wanted to slip out and go
home, so he only pretended to be asleep.
Soon he heard loud snores, and he knew
the mother pig must be asleep, so he
crept to the door, but found to his
dismay the mother pig quite blocked up
the doorway.

He was determined to escape, so he
crawled up her back and up the door
post, and reaching the roof he knocked
off a tile and squeezed out through the
little hole on to the roof.

    [Illustration]


    [Illustration]

As he sat wondering how to get down an
enormous eagle suddenly swooped down,
and catching up little Yellow Wang-lo in
its claws it rose up, up, up into the
air and flew away.

While the eagle was flying high up in
the air across the river on his way home
he suddenly let little Yellow Wang-lo
fall down, down, down.

    [Illustration]


    [Illustration]

And he fell with a tremendous "Splash"!
into the river just near his father's
houseboat, and as he had no clothes, nor
shoes, nor hat he quickly swam home.

When cross old Fo-Pa, who was very
hungry by now and very tired of waiting,
saw little Yellow Wang-lo returning
without his Sunday coat, hat and shoes,
no pig and no money, he took a thick
stick and began to beat him, and told
him directly it was daylight he must go
back to land and bring back the little
black pig.

Early the next morning little Yellow
Wang-lo started off to find the home of
the little black Pig.

He soon found the gate, and knocked and
asked to be let in; but the mother pig
said "No," in a very angry voice.

Then he begged one of the little pigs to
come out to him; but the mother pig
shouted "NO." At last he insisted, and
this time the mother pig roared

  "NO!"

    [Illustration]


    [Illustration]

But little Wang-lo was not afraid, and
said he would just burn down their
house, for he had promised to take a pig
home to his father, and if he could not
take it alive he would take it ready
roasted.

So little Yellow Wang-lo gathered a lot
of sticks and made a hot crackling fire.

When the mother pig and all the little
piglets saw the smoke and flames they
cried out to little Wang-lo to put out
the fire, as they were very sorry and
would come out and tell him some very
good news.

Seeing how angry he was, they all fell
on their knees and said if he would
spare their lives they would show him
where a lot of golden money was buried.

    [Illustration]


    [Illustration]

They led the way to a field close by,
and the seven little pigs began to grub
in the ground under a tree, and soon
uncovered a heap of shining golden
coins.

Now little Yellow Wang-lo had no pockets
and no bag, so how could he carry away
some of the money? The wise old mother
pig said: "Take off your shirt, little
boy, and tie up the sleeves and make a
bag of it." He quickly did this, and,
thanking the pigs, he ran off home as
fast as he could, stopping at the market
on the way to buy a nice little fat pig
for his father's dinner.

    [Illustration]


    [Illustration]

When Fo-Pa saw what a lot of money
little Yellow Wang-lo had brought back,
and what a good dinner he was going to
have, he was so pleased that for once he
was quite kind to the little boy. But,
greedy old man, he thought he would like
more gold, so that night when little
Yellow Wang-lo was fast asleep he took a
large sack and crept quietly away to the
land and filled his sack so full he
could hardly lift it. When at last he
got it on his back he tripped and fell
into the deep hole he had made, and the
sack fell on the top of him and
completely filled up the hole, so he
never got out again.

    [Illustration]


    [Illustration]

Little Yellow Wang-lo lived on in the
houseboat, but as he had plenty of money
he never killed or sold any more ducks,
and as the pigs had been such good
friends to him he never ate Roast Pork
again, but he bought some smart new
clothes.


           *       *       *       *


Final period (full stop) added:

  13. The Adventures Of Samuel and Selina.
  ... near a town.