THE MOTOR CAR DUMPY BOOK


T.W.H. CROSLAND




The Dumpy Books for Children

CLOTH, ROYAL 32mo., =1/6= EACH.

        =1. The Flamp.=
        =2. Mrs. Turner's Cautionary Stories.=
        =3. The Bad Family.=
        =4. The Story of Little Black Sambo.=
        =5. The Bountiful Lady.=
        =6. A Cat Book.=
        =7. A Flower Book.=
        =8. The Pink Knight.=
        =9. The Little Clown.=
        =10. A Horse Book.=
        =11. Little People: An Alphabet.=
        =12. A Dog Book.=
        =13. The Adventures of Samuel and Selina.=
        =14. The Little Girl Lost.=
        =15. Dollies.=
        =16. The Bad Mrs. Ginger.=
        =17. Peter Piper's Practical Principles.=
        =18. Little White Barbara.=
        =19. The Japanese Dumpy Book.=
        =20. Towlocks and His Wooden Horse.=
        =21. The Three Little Foxes.=
        =22. The Old Man's Bag.=
        =23. The Three Goblins.=
        =24. Dumpy Proverbs.=
        =25. More Dollies.=
        =26. Little Yellow Wang-lo.=
        =27. Plain Jane.=
        =28. The Sooty Man.=
        =29. Fishy-Winkle.=
        =30. Rosalina.=
        =31. Sammy and the Snarlywink.=
        =32. The Motor Car Dumpy Book.=

_A Cloth Case to contain Twelve Volumes can be had, price 2s. net; or
the First Twelve Volumes in Case, price £1 net._

        =LONDON: GRANT RICHARDS,
        48, Leicester Square.=




The Dumpy Books for Children

NO. 32. THE MOTOR CAR DUMPY BOOK.

[Illustration]




THE MOTOR CAR DUMPY BOOK

BY T. W. H. CROSLAND

ILLUSTRATED IN COLOURS BY J. R. MONSELL

LONDON GRANT RICHARDS 1904




The Motor Car Dumpy Book.


This is the old gentleman who used to walk in front of steam-driven
carriages on the King's highway. He carried in his hand a red flag which
he waved.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

This is the traction-engine which always came behind the old gentleman,
and made such a dreadful noise. If the roads were good it could travel
four miles in one hour.

This is the old gentleman getting out of the way of a motor car.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

This is a Motor Car. It can travel forty miles an hour. There is a
number on the back of it. If the car runs over you make a note of the
number and complain to the County Council. That is what the number is
for.

This is a Chaf-feur or motor car driver. He wears spectacles to keep the
dust out of his eyes, and a tarpaulin coat to keep the oil off his nice
clean suit.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

This is the horn for letting people know that the motor car is coming.
When you squeeze the india rubber ball at the end of the tube twice, the
horn says "Pip, Pip."

These are the kind of clothes you wear when you go moting if you are a
man.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

These are the kind of clothes you wear when you go moting if you are a
woman.

This is the policeman you will see all along the road. He has a watch in
his hand, so that if you want to know the time you can ask him.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

This is the policeman you will not see all along the road. He is hiding
behind a milestone to find out whether you are driving too fast.

This is the magistrate who fines you £20 if you have been driving too
fast. It is best not to drive too fast.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

This is a motor car that is being driven too fast.

This is a motor car that won't go.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

This is a motor car that won't stop.

This is a motor car race. The fastest car will win.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

This is a motor car accident.

This is another motor car accident.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

This is a motor omnibus for carrying a number of persons. If you see one
in the street you can stop it and have a ride for twopence.

This is a motor van. It is used by the shopman to deliver parcels to his
customers, and as it has his name and address on the sides and back it
is a good advertisement for him. Every shopman should have a motor van.
They look so smart.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

This is a toy motor car which runs round and round when you wind it up.

This is a toy motor car made of lead looping the loop.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

This is a toy motor car in which you can sit and have a ride if you work
the pedals with your feet. It has a steering wheel just like a real
car.

This is a motor bicycle, which saves you the trouble of working the
pedals. It can go quite fast, but if it breaks down it is very heavy to
pedal home.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

This is a motor air-ship. Some day we shall all have them.

        EDMUND EVANS,
        ENGRAVER AND PRINTER,
        THE RACQUET COURT PRESS,
        SWAN STREET, LONDON, S.E.

[Illustration]



Transcriber's Note:

Obvious punctuation errors repaired.