UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS PUBLICATIONS
                      MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

                     Volume 9, No. 9, pp. 347-351
                           August 15, 1956


                      Extensions of Known Ranges
                           of Mexican Bats

                                  BY

                           SYDNEY ANDERSON


                         UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS
                               LAWRENCE
                                 1956


     UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS PUBLICATIONS, MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

        Editors: E. Raymond Hall, Chairman, A. Byron Leonard,
                           Robert W. Wilson


                     Volume 9, No. 9, pp. 347-351
                      Published August 15, 1956


                         UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS
                           Lawrence, Kansas


                              PRINTED BY
                   FERD VOILAND, JR., STATE PRINTER
                            TOPEKA, KANSAS
                                 1956

                               26-4058




                      Extensions of Known Ranges
                           of Mexican Bats

                                  BY

                           SYDNEY ANDERSON


Incidental to studies of speciation of North American mammals, made
possible by assistance from the National Science Foundation and the
Kansas University Endowment Association, a number of bats have been
taken beyond the limits of their previously known geographic ranges.
Pending the completion of more detailed faunal accounts, these notes
are published so that the distributional records will be available to
interested students of Mexican mammals.

Many of these bats are essentially tropical and the new records here
reported, extend the known geographic ranges to the northward on
either the east or the west coast of Mexico. Continued collecting,
especially by the intensive application of a variety of methods
including the use of mist nets, in the northern parts of the zone of
tropical vegetation can be expected to yield other species of tropical
bats beyond the limits of the ranges now known. Catalogue numbers
cited in parentheses are those of the Museum of Natural History.

_Chilonycteris psilotis_ Dobson.--Six specimens (36426-36431) taken
7 mi. W and 1/2 mi. S Santiago, at sea level, Colima, by J. R. Alcorn,
on March 17, 1950, extend the known range of this species 330 miles
westward from the most northwestern recorded occurrence at Alpuyeca,
Morelos (Davis and Russell, 1952:234). Use of the name psilotis is
explained by de la Torre (1955:697).

_Chilonycteris parnellii mexicana_ Miller.--One specimen (54934) from
10 mi. W, 2 mi. S Piedra, 1200 ft., Tamaulipas, taken by Gerd H.
Heinrich, on June 13, 1953, extends the known range of this species 76
miles east-northeast (Goodwin, 1954:4), previously the most northern
recorded occurrence in northeastern Mexico. Thirty other specimens
have been taken from four additional localities between El Pachon and
the place 10 mi. W, 2 mi. S Piedra.

_Pteronotus davyi fulvus_ (Thomas).--Ten specimens (57525-57534) from
Rancho Santa Rosa, 25 km. N, 13 km. W Cd. Victoria, 260 meters,
Tamaulipas, taken by W. Schaldach, V. Grissino, and R. Grimsley, from
December 26, 1953, to January 5, 1954, extend the known range of this
species 360 miles northward from Mirador, Veracruz (Davis and Russell,
1952:235). Another specimen from Tamaulipas in our collection is from
Rancho Pano Ayuctle, 8 mi. N Gomez Farias, 300 feet.

_Glossophaga soricina leachii_ (Gray).--Two specimens (54942-54943)
from 16 mi. W, 3 mi. S Piedra, Tamaulipas, taken by Gerd H. Heinrich,
on June 15, 1953, extend the known range of this species on the Gulf
Coast of Mexico northward 60 miles from 5 mi. NE Antiguo Morelos, near
El Pachon, Tamaulipas (de la Torre, 1954:114).

_Anoura geoffroyi lasiopyga_ (Peters).--Three specimens (36574-36576)
from 2 mi. SE Jalcocotan, 3000 ft., Nayarit, the first records for the
state, taken by J. R. Alcorn, on February 15, 1950, extend the known
range of the species 50 miles northward from San Sebastian, Jalisco
(Sanborn, 1933:27).

_Choeronycteris mexicana_ Tschudi.--Three specimens (60176-60178) from
4 km. N Joya Verde, near Huisachal, 4000 ft., Tamaulipas, taken by W.
Schaldach, on July 17, 1954, extend the known range of this species
eastward into the state of Tamaulipas. Eastern marginal records in
northeastern Mexico were 1 mi. S and 4 mi. W Bella Union, 7000 ft.,
Coahuila (Baker, 1956:174), and Hacienda Capulin, San Luis Potosi
(Dalquest, 1953:27).

_Centurio senex_ Gray.--One specimen (54958) from 14 mi. W, 3 mi. S
Piedra, Tamaulipas, extends the known range of the species 58 miles
northward from Pano Ayuctle, near Gomez Farias, Tamaulipas (de la
Torre, 1954:114).

_Natalus mexicanus saturatus_ Dalquest and Hall.--Two specimens
(54999-55000) from the Sierra de Tamaulipas, 14 mi. W, 3 mi. S Piedra,
Tamaulipas, taken by Gerd H. Heinrich, on June 12, 1953, extend the
known range of this species 61 miles northward from El Pachon,
Tamaulipas (Goodwin, 1954:5). Forty-one other specimens have been
taken from three localities between El Pachon and the new record
station mentioned above.

_Rhogeessa parvula tumida_ H. Allen.--One specimen (55192) from 4 mi.
N La Pesca, Tamaulipas, taken by Gerd H. Heinrich, on May 24, 1953,
extends the known range of the species on the east coast of Mexico
northward 115 miles from 10 kms. WSW Ebano, Veracruz (Dalquest,
1953:58), and also northeastward 115 miles from Santa Maria,
Tamaulipas (Goodwin, 1954:6). Another new marginal locality for this
species, represented by 39 specimens in our collection, is 10 mi. W,
2 mi. S Piedra, 1200 ft., Tamaulipas.

_Baeodon alleni_ (Thomas).--A specimen (68773) from 6 mi. W and
2 mi. N Nejapa, Oaxaca, taken by A. A. Alcorn, on August 6, 1955,
extends the known range of this species southeastward 100 miles from
Cuicatlan, 590 meters, Oaxaca (Hall, 1955:2). Until recently this
species was known from the type locality only.

_Lasiurus borealis ornatus_ Hall.--Sixteen specimens (55325-55340)
from near Piedra, 1200 to 1400 ft., Tamaulipas (1 from 10 mi. W,
2 mi. S; 1 from 14 mi. W, 3 mi. S; and 14 from 16 mi. W, 3 mi. S
Piedra) tend to fill a gap in the known distribution of this species.
Previously it was known from Matamoros, Tamaulipas (Miller, 1897:108),
to the north and from Bledos, San Luis Potosi (Dalquest, 1953:61), to
the south. Assignment to the subspecies _L. b. ornatus_ is tentative
and is based primarily on the scanty cover of hair toward the margin
of the interfemoral membrane and scanty cover of hair on the ventral
surface of the membrane along the forearm. Adequate comparative
material of _L. b. ornatus_ from southern Mexico is not available.


                           LITERATURE CITED

BAKER, R. H.
  1956. The Mammals of Coahuila. Univ. Kansas Publ., Mus. Nat. Hist.,
        9:125-335, 75 figs. in text, June 15.

DALQUEST, W. W.
  1953. Mammals of the Mexican State of San Luis Potosi. Louisiana
        State Univ. Studies, Biol. Sci. Ser., No. 1:1-233, December 28.

DAVIS, W. B., and R. J. RUSSELL
  1952. Bats of the Mexican state of Morelos. Jour. Mamm., 33:234-239,
        May 16.

DE LA TORRE, L.
  1954. Bats from southern Tamaulipas, Mexico. Jour. Mamm., 35:113-116,
        May 26.

  1955. Bats from Guerrero, Jalisco and Oaxaca, Mexico. Fieldiana:
        Zoology, 37:695-703, 2 plates, June 19.

GOODWIN, G. G.
  1954. Mammals from Mexico collected by Marian Martin for the American
        Museum of Natural History. American Mus. Novit., 1689:1-16,
        November 12.

HALL, E. R.
  1955. Nuevos murcielagos para la fauna Mexicana. Acta Zool. Mexicana,
        1(No. 3):1-2, September 10.

MILLER, G. S., JR.
  1897. Revision of the North American bats of the family
        Vespertilionidae. N. Amer. Fauna, 13:1-135, October 16.

SANBORN, C. C.
  1933. Bats of the genera Anoura and Lonchoglossa. Zool. Ser., Field
        Mus. Nat. Hist., XX:23-28, December 11.

_Transmitted May 12, 1956._


                               26-4058