_The ultradrive had just one slight drawback: it set up a shock wave
that made suns explode. Which made the problem of getting back home a
delicate one indeed...._

[Illustration]




Time
Fuze

By Randall Garrett

Illustrated by Paul Orban


Commander Benedict kept his eyes on the rear plate as he activated the
intercom. "All right, cut the power. We ought to be safe enough here."

As he released the intercom, Dr. Leicher, of the astronomical staff,
stepped up to his side. "Perfectly safe," he nodded, "although even at
this distance a star going nova ought to be quite a display."

Benedict didn't shift his gaze from the plate. "Do you have your
instruments set up?"

"Not quite. But we have plenty of time. The light won't reach us for
several hours yet. Remember, we were outracing it at ten lights."

The commander finally turned, slowly letting his breath out in a soft
sigh. "Dr. Leicher, I would say that this is just about the foulest
coincidence that could happen to the first interstellar vessel ever to
leave the Solar System."

Leicher shrugged. "In one way of thinking, yes. It is certainly true
that we will never know, now, whether Alpha Centauri A ever had any
planets. But, in another way, it is extremely fortunate that we should
be so near a stellar explosion because of the wealth of scientific
information we can obtain. As you say, it is a coincidence, and
probably one that happens only once in a billion years. The chances of
any particular star going nova are small. That we should be so close
when it happens is of a vanishingly small order of probability."

Commander Benedict took off his cap and looked at the damp stain in the
sweatband. "Nevertheless, Doctor, it is damned unnerving to come out of
ultradrive a couple of hundred million miles from the first star ever
visited by man and have to turn tail and run because the damned thing
practically blows up in your face."

Leicher could see that Benedict was upset; he rarely used the same
profanity twice in one sentence.

They had been downright lucky, at that. If Leicher hadn't seen the star
begin to swell and brighten, if he hadn't known what it meant, or if
Commander Benedict hadn't been quick enough in shifting the ship back
into ultradrive--Leicher had a vision of an incandescent cloud of
gaseous metal that had once been a spaceship.

The intercom buzzed. The commander answered, "Yes?"

"Sir, would you tell Dr. Leicher that we have everything set up now?"

Leicher nodded and turned to leave. "I guess we have nothing to do now
but wait."

When the light from the nova did come, Commander Benedict was back at
the plate again--the forward one, this time, since the ship had been
turned around in order to align the astronomy lab in the nose with the
star.

Alpha Centauri A began to brighten and spread. It made Benedict think
of a light bulb connected through a rheostat, with someone turning that
rheostat, turning it until the circuit was well overloaded.

The light began to hurt Benedict's eyes even at that distance and he
had to cut down the receptivity in order to watch. After a while, he
turned away from the plate. Not because the show was over, but simply
because it had slowed to a point beyond which no change seemed to take
place to the human eye.

Five weeks later, much to Leicher's chagrin, Commander Benedict
announced that they had to leave the vicinity. The ship had only been
provisioned to go to Alpha Centauri, scout the system without landing
on any of the planets, and return. At ten lights, top speed for the
ultradrive, it would take better than three months to get back.

"I know you'd like to watch it go through the complete cycle," Benedict
said, "but we can't go back home as a bunch of starved skeletons."

Leicher resigned himself to the necessity of leaving much of his work
unfinished, and, although he knew it was a case of sour grapes,
consoled himself with the thought that he could as least get most of
the remaining information from the five-hundred-inch telescope on Luna,
four years from then.

As the ship slipped into the not-quite-space through which the
ultradrive propelled it, Leicher began to consolidate the material he
had already gathered.



Commander Benedict wrote in the log:

_Fifty-four days out from Sol. Alpha Centauri has long since faded back
into its pre-blowup state, since we have far outdistanced the light
from its explosion. It now looks as it did two years ago. It_--

"Pardon me, Commander," Leicher interrupted, "But I have something
interesting to show you."

Benedict took his fingers off the keys and turned around in his chair.
"What is it, Doctor?"

Leicher frowned at the papers in his hands. "I've been doing some work
on the probability of that explosion happening just as it did, and I've
come up with some rather frightening figures. As I said before, the
probability was small. A little calculation has given us some
information which makes it even smaller. For instance: with a possible
error of plus or minus two seconds Alpha Centauri A began to explode
the instant we came out of ultradrive!

"Now, the probability of that occurring comes out so small that it
should happen only once in ten to the four hundred sixty-seventh
seconds."

It was Commander Benedict's turn to frown. "So?"

"Commander, the entire universe is only about ten to the seventeenth
seconds old. But to give you an idea, let's say that the chances of its
happening are _once_ in millions of trillions of years!"

Benedict blinked. The number, he realized, was totally beyond his
comprehension--or anyone else's.

"Well, so what? Now it has happened that one time. That simply means
that it will almost certainly never happen again!"

"True. But, Commander, when you buck odds like that and win, the thing
to do is look for some factor that is cheating in your favor. If you
took a pair of dice and started throwing sevens, one right after
another--_for the next couple of thousand years_--you'd begin to
suspect they were loaded."

Benedict said nothing; he just waited expectantly.

"There is only one thing that could have done it. Our ship." Leicher
said it quietly, without emphasis.

"What we know about the hyperspace, or superspace, or whatever it is we
move through in ultradrive is almost nothing. Coming out of it so near
to a star might set up some sort of shock wave in normal space which
would completely disrupt that star's internal balance, resulting in the
liberation of unimaginably vast amounts of energy, causing that star to
go nova. We can only assume that we ourselves were the fuze that set
off that nova."

Benedict stood up slowly. When he spoke, his voice was a choking
whisper. "You mean the sun--Sol--might...."

Leicher nodded. "I don't say that it definitely would. But the
probability is that we were the cause of the destruction of Alpha
Centauri A, and therefore might cause the destruction of Sol in the
same way."

Benedict's voice was steady again. "That means that we can't go back
again, doesn't it? Even if we're not positive, we can't take the
chance."

"Not necessarily. We can get fairly close before we cut out the drive,
and come in the rest of the way at sub-light speed. It'll take longer,
and we'll have to go on half or one-third rations, but we _can_ do it!"

"How far away?"

"I don't know what the minimum distance is, but I do know how we can
gage a distance. Remember, neither Alpha Centauri B or C were
detonated. We'll have to cut our drive at least as far away from Sol
as they are from A."

"I see." The commander was silent for a moment, then: "Very well, Dr.
Leicher. If that's the safest way, that's the only way."

Benedict issued the orders, while Leicher figured the exact point at
which they must cut out the drive, and how long the trip would take.
The rations would have to be cut down accordingly.

Commander Benedict's mind whirled around the monstrousness of the whole
thing like some dizzy bee around a flower. What if there had been
planets around Centauri A? What if they had been inhabited? Had he, all
unwittingly, killed entire races of living, intelligent beings?

But, how could he have known? The drive had never been tested before.
It couldn't be tested inside the Solar System--it was too fast. He and
his crew had been volunteers, knowing that they might die when the
drive went on.

Suddenly, Benedict gasped and slammed his fist down on the desk before
him.

Leicher looked up. "What's the matter, Commander?"

"Suppose," came the answer, "Just suppose, that we have the same
effect on a star when we _go into_ ultradrive as we do when we come
out of it?"

Leicher was silent for a moment, stunned by the possibility. There was
nothing to say, anyway. They could only wait....



A little more than half a light year from Sol, when the ship reached
the point where its occupants could see the light that had left their
home sun more than seven months before, they watched it become
suddenly, horribly brighter. _A hundred thousand times brighter!_

... THE END