DICKENS'S CHILDREN




DICKENS'S CHILDREN

TEN DRAWINGS BY

JESSIE WILLCOX SMITH

          NEW YORK
          CHARLES SCRIBNERS SONS
          MCMXII




          COPYRIGHT, 1912, BY
          CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS




LIST OF SUBJECTS

ILLUSTRATED BY

JESSIE WILLCOX SMITH'S PAINTINGS

          Tiny Tim and Bob Cratchit on Christmas Day
            _"A Christmas Carol," Stave Three_

          David Copperfield and Peggotty by the Parlour Fire
            _"David Copperfield," Chapter II_

          Paul Dombey and Florence on the Beach at Brighton
            _"Dombey and Son," Chapter VIII_

          Little Nell and Her Grandfather at Mrs. Jarley's
            _"The Old Curiosity Shop," Chapter XXVI_

          Pip and Joe Gargery
            _"Great Expectations," Chapter II_

          Jenny Wren, the Little Dolls' Dressmaker
            _"Our Mutual Friend," Chapter I, Book Second_

          Oliver's First Meeting with the Artful Dodger
            _"Oliver Twist," Chapter VIII_

          Mrs. Kenwigs and the Four Little Kenwigses
            _"Nicholas Nickleby," Chapter XIV_

          The Runaway Couple
            _"Christmas Stories," The Holly-Tree, Second Branch_

          Little Em'ly
            _"David Copperfield," Chapter III_




TINY TIM AND BOB CRATCHIT ON CHRISTMAS DAY




TINY TIM AND BOB CRATCHIT ON CHRISTMAS DAY

_"A Christmas Carol," Stave Three_


In came little Bob, the father, with at least three feet of comforter
exclusive of the fringe, hanging down before him; and his threadbare
clothes darned up and brushed, to look seasonable; and Tiny Tim upon his
shoulder.

[Illustration]




DAVID COPPERFIELD AND PEGGOTTY BY THE PARLOUR FIRE


DAVID COPPERFIELD AND PEGGOTTY BY THE PARLOUR FIRE

_"David Copperfield," Chapter II_


"Peggotty," says I, suddenly, "were you ever married?"

"Lord, Master Davy," replied Peggotty, "what's put marriage in your
head?"

She answered with such a start, that it quite awoke me....

"But _were_ you ever married, Peggotty?" says I. "You are a very
handsome woman, an't you?"

[Illustration]




PAUL DOMBEY AND FLORENCE ON THE BEACH AT BRIGHTON


PAUL DOMBEY AND FLORENCE ON THE BEACH AT BRIGHTON

_"Dombey and Son," Chapter VIII_


His favourite spot was quite a lonely one, far away from most loungers;
and with Florence sitting by his side at work, or reading to him, or
talking to him, and the wind blowing on his face, and the water coming
up among the wheels of his bed, he wanted nothing more.

[Illustration]




LITTLE NELL AND HER GRANDFATHER AT MRS. JARLEY'S


LITTLE NELL AND HER GRANDFATHER AT MRS. JARLEY'S

_"The Old Curiosity Shop," Chapter XXVI_


"Set 'em out near the hind wheels, child, that's the best place"--said
their friend, superintending the arrangements from above. "Now hand up
the teapot for a little more hot water, and a pinch of fresh tea, and
then both of you eat and drink as much as you can, and don't spare
anything; that's all I ask of you."

[Illustration]




PIP AND JOE GARGERY


PIP AND JOE GARGERY

_"Great Expectations," Chapter II_


"If you can cough any trifle on it up, Pip, I'd recommend you to do it,"
said Joe, all aghast. "Manners is manners, but still your elth's your
elth."

[Illustration]




JENNY WREN, THE LITTLE DOLLS' DRESSMAKER


JENNY WREN, THE LITTLE DOLLS' DRESSMAKER

          _"Our Mutual Friend,"
            Chapter I, Book Second_


"Oh! I know their tricks and their manners."

[Illustration]




OLIVER'S FIRST MEETING WITH THE ARTFUL DODGER


OLIVER'S FIRST MEETING WITH THE ARTFUL DODGER

_"Oliver Twist," Chapter VIII_


"Hullo, my covey! What's the row?" said this strange young gentleman to
Oliver.

[Illustration]




MRS. KENWIGS AND THE FOUR LITTLE KENWIGSES


MRS. KENWIGS AND THE FOUR LITTLE KENWIGSES

_"Nicholas Nickleby," Chapter XIV_


"Oh! they're too beautiful to live, much too beautiful!" sobbed Mrs.
Kenwigs. On hearing this alarming presentiment ... all four little girls
raised a hideous cry, and burying their heads in their mother's lap
simultaneously, screamed until the eight flaxen tails vibrated again.

[Illustration]




THE RUNAWAY COUPLE


THE RUNAWAY COUPLE

            _"Christmas Stories"
          The Holly-Tree, Second Branch_


So Boots goes up-stairs to the Angel, and there he finds Master Harry on
a e-normous sofa,--immense at any time, but looking like the Great Bed
of Ware, compared with him, a drying the eyes of Miss Norah with his
pocket-hankecher. Their little legs was entirely off the ground, of
course, and it really is not possible for Boots to express to me how
small them children looked.

[Illustration]




LITTLE EM'LY


LITTLE EM'LY

_"David Copperfield," Chapter III_


The light, bold, fluttering little figure turned and came back safe to
me, and I soon laughed at my fears, and at the cry I had uttered;
fruitlessly in any case, for there was no one near.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]