THE
  TWELVE MONTHS
     OF THE
      YEAR;

  _With a Picture for each Month._

  Adapted to Northern Latitudes.

  [Illustration]

  PORTLAND:
  BAILEY & NOYES.




       THE
  TWELVE MONTHS
     OF THE
      YEAR;

  _With a Picture for each Month_

  Adapted to Northern Latitudes.

  [Illustration]

  PORTLAND:
  BAILEY & NOYES.




[Illustration]

Should you like to read something about the months of the year? "How
many months are there?" "Twelve." "How many days are there in each
month?"

  Thirty days hath September,
  April, June, and November;
  February hath twenty-eight alone,
  And all the rest have thirty one;
  Except in leap-year, then's the time
  That February hath twenty-nine.




[Illustration]


_January._--Now the weather is very cold. There are no leaves upon the
trees. The ground is frozen quite hard. Perhaps it is covered with snow.
Every thing looks very cold and comfortless. A little boy or girl, when
out of humor, reminds me of this month. Bring plenty of wood and make a
good fire, that we may warm ourselves.




[Illustration]


_February_ is a cold month, but the days are getting longer. Now the
crocuses and snow-drops begin to appear. When little boys and girls have
been naughty, how pleasant it is to see them begin to be good again!
Remember, the crocuses and snow-drops do not make themselves grow: it is
God that causes them to grow. So we must look to him to enable us to be
good.




[Illustration]


_March._--The wind blows very hard. Mind it does not blow you away. See,
that tree has been blown down. Job says that God is angry with the
wicked, and that they are as stubble before the wind. Do you recollect
that the winds and the sea obeyed Jesus, and were still when he bade
them? He can still our angry passions as easily as he did the winds and
waves.




[Illustration]


_April._--The spring is come; the trees are in blossom; the leaves
begin to appear. The birds sing merrily, and every thing looks cheerful.
Now you may work in your gardens. Do you not like to see a garden neat
and free from weeds? It is very pleasant to see children free from bad
habits and naughty ways.


    The blessing of the LORD, it maketh rich and he addeth no sorrow
    with it.




[Illustration]


_May._--This is a very pleasant month: now there are a great many
flowers. Little girls are fond of swinging. I hope they will not disobey
their parents. Little boys and girls often get hurt when they are
disobedient to their parents. They forget that the Bible says, "Children
obey your parents."




[Illustration]


_June_.--Now it is time to cut the grass and make hay. It is very
pleasant to go and help. See how soon the grass withers after it is cut.
"In the morning it flourisheth and groweth up, in the evening it is cut
down and withereth." Little children often seem very well, but on a
sudden they are taken ill, and die;--they are compared to grass and
flowers.




[Illustration]


_July._--It is very hot, and the animals retire to the shade. Now you
must water your garden: if you do not, your plants will die. Are you
fond of strawberries and currants? They are now ripe, but do not eat
them without leave.

  Our father ate forbidden fruit,
    And from his glory fell;
  And we, his children, thus were brought
    To death, and near to hell.




[Illustration]


_August._--The grain begins to ripen. Now the farmer sends his men with
their sickles, and they reap it; it is then tied up in sheaves and
carried to the barn. Do you recollect the parable about the wheat and
the tares? Matthew, 13. Christ compares those who love him to wheat:
they will go to heaven. The wicked are compared to tares: they are to be
punished.




[Illustration]


_September._--It is time to gather the apples and pears. You may get a
basket, and pick up those that fall down. Christ said, "By their fruits
ye shall know them;" he then spoke of peoples actions. We know whether
little children are good or naughty, by what they do.


    The labor of the righteous tendeth to life; the fruit of the wicked
    to sin.




[Illustration]


_October._--The leaves are falling off the trees. The days are now a
great deal shorter than they were. The grapes are ripe; it is time to
gather them. Christ compared himself to a vine, and his disciples to the
branches. Remember that it is to him we are to look for grace and
strength, to enable us to do what pleases him. The branches will not
bring forth fruit if they are parted from the vine.




[Illustration]


_November._--Now the weather is dark and dismal; you must amuse yourself
in doors. When you are tired of playing, come and sit down and read a
little. Here is a pretty picture book to look at. It is about the
"Histories in the Bible." I do not know any picture book with half so
many pretty pictures as those which are taken from the Bible.




[Illustration]


_December._--Now dreary winter reigns, and the year comes to its solemn
close. All the sins we have committed, this year against God, and all we
have done in obedience to his commands, are now written down in his
book. So our life will soon close; and we must then appear before God in
judgment, and render up our account for all the deeds done in the body,
whether they be good, or whether they be evil.




[Illustration]


I dare say you have read in your Testament, that Christ came down from
heaven to save sinners, and that all have sinned. He has promised to
hear all who call upon him. We cannot be happy unless we love him. Our
hearts are inclined to evil by nature, so that we do not like to hear
about him, unless he causes us to love him. Pray, then, that he would,
by the power of his Holy Spirit, enable you to love and serve him in
early youth.




  A B C D E F
  G H I J K L
  M N O P Q R
  S T U V W X
  Y Z &.

  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
  9 0




[Illustration]