+----------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                    |
  |                      HISTORY                11     |
  |                        OF                          |
  |                      BEASTS.                       |
  |                                                    |
  |                                                    |
  |                   [Illustration]                   |
  |                                                    |
  |                                                    |
  |                     PORTLAND:                      |
  |                   BAILEY & NOYES                   |
  |                                                    |
  +----------------------------------------------------+




HISTORY OF BEASTS.


[Illustration]


PORTLAND: BAILEY & NOYES.




[Illustration]

THE CAT


The cat is a very useful domestic animal. She destroys the rats and
mice, which otherwise would do much injury. God has formed her to live
among men. How soft her fur is! How quietly she lies and purs when she
is treated kindly! How patiently she will sit, for many hours together,
and watch for her prey! It would be well if little boys and girls would
sit as still while they are learning their lessons.




[Illustration]

THE DOG.


The Dog takes care of his master's property; he follows him about, and
will not let any body hurt him. Should a stranger come, he barks, to let
his master know it. He is easily taught a great many useful things. A
shepherd's dog will not let the sheep go astray. It would be well if
little boys and girls were always as faithful to their parents as the
dog is to his master.




[Illustration]

THE COW.


The cow is a very valuable animal, and useful in many ways. I dare say
you like to have her milk for breakfast, and to eat sometimes a piece of
beef at dinner. The skin is tanned and made into shoes; the horns are
made into many useful articles; the bones make combs, and many other
things, nearly as well as ivory; the hair is used in making mortar, with
which our houses are plastered and made warm. How wonderfully has God
provided for the convenience of man.




[Illustration]

THE FOX.


The Fox is a cunning and mischievous animal. He is troublesome to the
farmer, frequently killing his geese and chickens. People are obliged to
go, in great numbers, sometimes, to hunt them out of their holes and
hiding places.--Do you remember what our Saviour said of himself? "The
foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of
man hath not where to lay his head."




[Illustration]

THE GOAT.


The Goat is a useful animal when tamed, and it is very cruel for little
boys to teaze them. Their milk is very wholesome, though not as good as
that of the cow. "The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats." When
Saul persecuted David, he was forced to hide among the rocks where the
goats were found. Read 1 Samuel, xxiv. 2.




[Illustration]

THE HORSE.


The horse is a noble and useful animal. He is very strong and active.
The Psalmist says, "Some trust in chariots, and some in horses; but we
will remember the name of our God." This is to teach us not to trust in
any thing in this world, however good or great it may be, but to look to
God alone for strength and protection.




[Illustration]

THE ASS


In eastern countries, the Ass is a much larger and stronger animal than
it is here. It is not easily tamed, but it is very useful, and one of
the most patient of beasts when it is tamed. Job says, "Vain man would
be wise, though man be born like a wild ass's colt." Job, xi. 24. For we
are all naturally inclined to do what is evil and wrong, unless our
hearts are subdued by the power of divine grace.




[Illustration]

THE LAMB.


In the Bible, Christ is compared to a lamb, because lambs were
sacrificed as an offering for sin. John the Baptist pointed out Christ
to his disciples, and said, "Behold the Lamb of God, that taketh away
the sin of the world."--Think upon what Christ suffered for you, and
pray that you may love him, and that he would cause you to hate sin, and
to do his will.




[Illustration]

THE SHEEP.


When Sheep wander from their fold, they will not find their way back
again at night, unless they are driven home. Dogs, and many other
animals, can find their way home, but sheep cannot find their way to
their fold. "All we, like sheep have gone astray." Christ is the good
Shepherd; he will take care of those who love him; for he laid down his
life for his sheep.




[Illustration]

THE LION.


The Lion is one of the strongest and fiercest of wild beasts. The Bible
says, "The righteous are bold as a lion." But wicked men are strong
also: the Psalmist prayed that God would "save him from the lion's
mouth." You recollect about Daniel in the lions' den;--God sent an angel
and shut the lions' mouths.




[Illustration]

THE TIGER.


The Tiger is a native of Africa. He is a very fierce beast. Angry
persons are often compared to the tiger; and certainly they resemble
furious wild beasts. Perhaps they do not intend to do harm, but they
often do a great deal of mischief; therefore "leave off contention
before it be meddled with."




[Illustration]

THE SERPENT


"O what an ugly Serpent!" says some little boy or girl who is reading
this book. Do you remember who it was that took the form of a serpent,
and tempted our first parents to sin against God? Read the account of it
in the third chapter of the book of Genesis; and remember, when you sin
against God, you resemble the "old serpent, the Devil."




[Illustration]

THE REINDEER.


The Reindeer is an inhabitant of cold countries. The Laplanders find
them very serviceable; they draw their sledges over the snow and ice for
them, and their skins make a warm covering from the cold. How wonderful
are the works of God! There is nothing made in vain.




[Illustration]

The prophet Isaiah tells us, that "the wolf shall dwell with the lamb,
and the leopard shall lie down with the kid, and the calf, and the young
lion, and the fatling together, and a little child shall lead them."
Isaiah xi. These words foretell that blessed time when Satan shall be
chained for a thousand years, and Christ shall reign throughout the
earth. That period is called the Millenium.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |