_Recipes for_
    Eatmor(R)
    _Fresh_
  CRANBERRIES

[Illustration]

[Illustration: Guaranteed by Good Housekeeping
Replacement or refund of money if not as advertised therein]




[Illustration]

10-Minute Cranberry Sauce

  2 cups sugar
  2 cups water
  4 cups Eatmor Cranberries
      (one bag or box)

Boil sugar and water together 5 minutes. Add cranberries and boil,
without stirring, until all the skins pop open--about 5 minutes. Remove
from heat and cool in saucepan. Makes one quart 10-Minute Cranberry
Sauce.


VARIATIONS

=Cranberry-Ambrosia.= Pour sauce over thin-sliced oranges, top with
shredded cocoanut for Cranberry Ambrosia.

=Minted Cranberry Sauce.= Stir in teaspoon chopped fresh mint or few
drops mint extract for Minted Cranberry Sauce.

=Cranberry Apricot Delight.= Add 1 cup cooked sweetened apricots for
Cranberry Apricot Delight.

=Cranberry-Chiquita.= Fold in 3 bananas cut in 1/2 inch slices for
Cranberry-Chiquita.

=Cranberry-Ruby Pears.= Spoon sauce over cooked or canned pear halves
for Cranberry-Ruby Pears.

_Put some in your freezer and enjoy these appetizing fresh cranberry
sauces the year round._




Quick-Freezing Fresh Cranberries

[Illustration]


You can enjoy the appetizing flavor of fresh cranberries the year round
by putting a good supply of Eatmor in your home freezer or storage
locker.

It's the easiest fruit to freeze. No processing is required. All you
have to do is place the unopened bag or box of Eatmor Cranberries
directly in your freezing unit.

When ready to use--handle exactly as you would fresh cranberries. No
thawing is required. Pour in colander, rinse in cold water, drain. Use
in any standard fresh cranberry recipe.


Cranberry Sherbet

  2 3/4 cups water
  2 cups sugar
  4 cups Eatmor Cranberries
      (one bag or box)
  1 tablespoon gelatin (1 envelope)
  1/4 cup cold water
  Juice and grated rind 1 lemon
  Juice and grated rind 1 orange

Combine cranberries, water and sugar in saucepan. Cook until cranberries
are soft. Put through sieve or food mill. Soften gelatin in cold water
and dissolve in hot cranberry puree. Stir in fruit juice and rind. Cool.
Pour into refrigerator tray and freeze until firm. Makes 1 quart.




Cranberry Orange Relish

[Illustration]

  2 cups sugar
  4 cups Eatmor Cranberries
      (one bag or box)
  2 Sunkist oranges, quartered and seeded

Put raw cranberries and oranges through Waring Blendor or food chopper.
Add sugar and mix well. Chill in refrigerator a few hours before
serving. Makes one quart relish. This relish will keep well in the
refrigerator for several weeks. Try quick-freezing Cranberry Orange
Relish.


VARIATIONS

=Cranberry Apple Relish.= Peel, core and dice 2 apples; stir in for
Cranberry Apple Relish.

=Cranberry Vegetable Relish.= Stir in 1/2 cup each diced raw carrots and
celery for Cranberry Vegetable Relish.

=Cranberry Citrus Relish.= Add 1 cup canned or fresh grapefruit segments
for Cranberry Citrus Relish.

=Spicy Cranberry Relish.= Stir in pinch powdered cinnamon and cloves for
Spicy Cranberry Relish.

=Cranberry Hawaiian Relish.= Stir in 1 cup frozen, canned or fresh diced
pineapple for Cranberry Hawaiian Relish.

_You can enjoy fresh Cranberry Orange Relish the year round by freezing
a supply for later use._




Cranberry-Apple Pie

[Illustration]

  1 recipe favorite pastry
  2 1/4 cups sugar
  1/2 cup water
  2 cups apple slices
  4 cups Eatmor Cranberries
  2 tablespoons cornstarch
  2 tablespoons water

Roll out half of pastry and fit into 9-inch pan. Combine sugar, water,
apple slices and Eatmor Cranberries in saucepan. Cook until cranberries
pop--about 10 minutes. Make a paste of cornstarch and remaining water,
stir into fruit and continue cooking until thick and clear--about 5
minutes. Cool and pour into pie shell. Roll out remaining pastry and cut
in strips. Arrange crisscross fashion over top. Bake in 425 deg. F. oven
25 minutes.


Ideas for Christmas

[Illustration]

Trim the house in the real old-fashioned way with gay red cranberries
strung with thread and needle on the Christmas tree. Alternate a piece
of snowy white popcorn for contrast.

Also for dangling on the green branches, make four inch circlets of
cranberries twisted with silver Christmas rope or tinsel strips.

Make a cranberry Santa. A circle of berries on wire makes the body and
three berries make each arm and leg. A round cardboard circle topped
with a paper red hat needs but a fluff of cotton whiskers to complete
Saint Nick.




[Illustration]

Name Me and _WIN_ a new CADILLAC CONVERTIBLE
or one of 60 other Valuable Prizes

[Illustration]

    Select an appropriate first and last name for the Eatmor Cranberry
    girl pictured above.

    In 25 words or less tell why you like

        Eatmor(R) _Fresh_ CRANBERRIES

    Other prizes, 10 G. E. Home Freezers, 25 G. E. Triple Whip Mixers,
    10 Waring Blendors, 25 $10 cash prizes.

    Prizes will be awarded on what Reuben H. Donnelley Corporation
    considers most appropriate first and last name and most original,
    sincere and apt statement.

    Send as many entries as you wish to address below but make sure
    each entry includes your name and address and Eatmor name from
    cellophane bag or window box.

EATMOR CONTEST, P. O. BOX 120, New York, N. Y.

_Contest closes December 31, 1953._




LITHO IN U.S.A.