Robt. Schumann


                        The Story of the Boy Who
                         Made Pictures in Music





                         Made up into a Book by


        ........................................................





                              Philadelphia
                          Theodore Presser Co.
                           1712 Chestnut Str.


                 Copyright. 1916, by THEO. PRESSER CO.
                         Printed in the U.S.A.




                      [Illustration: No. 1

                      Cut the picture of Schumann
                        from the sheet of pictures.
                      Paste in here.
                      Write the composer's name
                        below and the dates also.]


        ........................................................
                                  BORN


        ........................................................
                                  DIED


        ........................................................




                     The Story of the Boy Who Made
                           Pictures in Music.


When Robert Schumann was a boy he used to amuse his friends by playing
their pictures on the piano. He could make the music imitate the person.

One day he said to them: This is the way the farmer walks when he comes
home singing from his work.

                          [Illustration: No. 2
                           THE HAPPY FARMER.]

Some day you will be able to play a lot of pieces by Schumann that
picture the pleasantest things so clearly that you can see them very
plainly indeed. In one of his books there is a music picture of a boy
riding a rocking horse.

Another of a little girl falling asleep.

_A March for Little Soldiers._ (That is, make-believes.)

And then there are _Sitting by the Fireside_, _What they Sing in
Church_, and a piece the first four notes of which spell the name of a
composer who was a good friend of Schumann's.

This composer came from Denmark.

                          [Illustration: No. 3
                              NIELS GADE.]

This is a picture of the house in Zwickau, Germany, where Robert
Schumann was born.

                          [Illustration: No. 4
                        SCHUMANN'S BIRTHPLACE.]

Schumann was a strong healthy youth who had many friends and loved life.

                          [Illustration: No. 5
                          SCHUMANN AS A YOUTH.]

What do you think the Father and Mother of Robert Schumann wanted him to
be when he was grown up?

A lawyer!

Robert was the youngest of five children, full of fun and up to all
kinds of games. He went to school and became especially fond of reading
plays.

He also loved to write little plays and to act them out on the stage
that his Father had built for him in his room. So he and his companions
could give their plays in their own theatre.

All the while Robert was taking piano lessons.

Just before he entered the High School he heard a pianist who played so
beautifully that he made up his mind that he would become a musician.

The pianist whose playing gave him this thought is one whose name you
will know better and better as you get older.

                          [Illustration: No. 6
                           IGNACE MOSCHELES.]

There was lots of music making in the Schumann home, for Robert and all
his companions played and sang. And besides that, he composed music for
them.

It must have been a pleasant picture to see all these German boys coming
together to make music. If we could gather together some American boys
who were alive at that same time, here are some we could have found:

Nathaniel Hawthorne, who wrote for children, _Tanglewood Tales_ and the
_Wonder Book_.

                          [Illustration: No. 7
                              HAWTHORNE.]

Then there was Longfellow, who was born in Portland, Maine. How many of
his poems do you know besides _Hiawatha_?

                          [Illustration: No. 8
                              LONGFELLOW.]

And then we must not forget Whittier, who wrote many lovely poems. One
was about a little girl who spelled the word that her companion missed
in school and so she went above him in the class.

                          [Illustration: No. 9
                               WHITTIER.]

And still there was another little boy only a year older than Robert
Schumann. He was born in a cabin.

                         [Illustration: No. 10
                         LINCOLN'S BIRTHPLACE.]

This boy's name, as you can guess, was Abraham Lincoln.

                         [Illustration: No. 11
                           ABRAHAM LINCOLN.]

So when you think of Robert Schumann, let us also think of Hawthorne,
Longfellow, Whittier, and Lincoln.

They were all doing their best, even as boys, to be useful.

Well, after all, Robert Schumann did not become a lawyer. He studied
music very hard. His teacher was Frederick Wieck. His teacher's
daughter, Clara Wieck, played the piano very beautifully.

                         [Illustration: No. 12
                             CLARA WIECK.]

Papa Wieck, as he was called, was not very kind to Robert Schumann when
the young man confessed that he and Clara loved one another and wished
to marry.

                         [Illustration: No. 13
                           FRIEDRICH WIECK.]

But after a while it all turned out happily and they were married. So
Clara Wieck became Clara Schumann.

Here is a picture of them seated together.

                         [Illustration: No. 14
                      ROBERT AND CLARA SCHUMANN.]

In the sixteen years that Robert Schumann lived after he and Clara Wieck
were married he composed lots of music for the piano, besides songs,
symphonies, and other kinds of compositions.

He was a teacher in the Leipzig Conservatory. Among his friends were
Mendelssohn, Chopin, Brahms, and many others.

Schumann is best known as a composer of music, although he was also a
teacher, a conductor, and a writer upon musical subjects. For many years
he was the head of a musical newspaper, which is remembered to this day
because of the great work he did in helping people to understand new
music and find out new composers. When he was a very young man Schumann
wanted to become a pianist, but he unfortunately used a machine that he
thought was going to help him play better. It hurt his hand so that he
was never able to play well again. Poor Schumann went out of his mind in
his last years, and died insane, July 29, 1856.

                         [Illustration: No. 15
                            CLARA SCHUMANN.]

Clara Schumann lived forty years after Robert Schumann died. She was the
teacher of many students, some of whom traveled from America to study
with her. She, too, was a composer and a concert pianist who played in
public from the time she was ten years of age.




                      FACTS ABOUT ROBERT SCHUMANN.


1. Robert Schumann was born at Zwickau, in Saxony, Germany, on June 8,
1810.

2. When Schumann was nine years old he heard the great pianist Ignaz
Moscheles play and resolved to become a great pianist.

3. When Schumann was a youth he showed a gift for writing poetry.

4. Schumann's father was a successful book-seller.

5. All through his life Schumann was a great lover of the writings of
the German author, Jean Paul (whose full name was Jean Paul Richter).
Much of his music shows his high regard for that writer of fairy
stories.

6. Schumann was twenty-one years old when he injured his hand and
learned that therefore he could not hope to be a pianist. It was then
that he made up his mind to be a composer.

7. Schumann had enough means to live in comfort. He was not poor, as
were Mozart, Schubert, and some others.

8. Robert and Clara Schumann had eight children, and some of Schumann's
best music was written to interest his children.

9. Schumann died July 29, 1856.




                 SOME QUESTIONS ABOUT ROBERT SCHUMANN.


When you can answer them, try to write the Story of Schumann, to be
copied on pages 14, 15, 16.

1. In what country was Schumann born?

2. Can you name some pieces for the piano composed by Schumann?

3. What did he write when he was a little boy?

4. What great pianist did Robert hear when a boy?

5. Name some famous Americans who were boys when Robert was going to
school.

6. Who wrote Hiawatha? Tanglewood Tales?

7. With whom did Robert Schumann study the piano?

8. Whom did Robert Schumann marry?

9. Tell what you know about her.

10. Where did Schumann teach?

11. Mention some of his friends.

12. What does the composer picture for us in the "Happy Farmer?"

13. Whose name is spelled by these notes?

                             [Illustration]

14. In what year was Schumann born?

15. Through what was Schumann best known?

16. How did he help people find new composers?

17. What misfortune came to Schumann late in life?




                     THE STORY OF ROBERT SCHUMANN.

                     Written by...................

                     On (date)....................

                         [Illustration: No. 16]